Global Service
Root account created by default, shouldn't be used or shared
Users are people within your organization, and can be grouped.

IAM permissions
    Users or groups can be assigned JSON documents called policies that define what they can do.
    These policies define the permissions that the user has.
    In AWS you apply the lease privilege principle: Don't give more permissions than a user needs.

IAM policies inheritance
    Let's say we have Alice, Bob, Charlie, David, Edwar and Fred.
    Alice, Bob and charlie are in the same group. Called Developers, then they will inherit the permissions of the group.
    David and Edwar are in the same group. Called Operations, then they will inherit the permissions of the group.
    Fred doesn't belong to any group, so he will have inline policies.
    Charles and David are in the Audit group as well, so then they will inherit the permissions of the group.

IAM policies structure
    consist of 
        version - version of the policy document
        id: an identifier for the policy, optional
        Statement - a list of statements (Array of JSON objects)
            Sid: an identifier for the statement, optional
            Effect: Where the statemnt allows or denies access
            principle: account, user or role, to which the policy applied to
            action: list of actions that are allowed or denied
            rescource: list of resources to which the actions applied to
            condition: condtions for when this policy is in effect (Optional)

IAM MFA overview
    IAM password policy (Very helpful)
        Set passwrod policy for IAM users
            minimum password length
            require uppercase, lowercase, numbers, and special characters
            prevent reuse of passwords
            enforce password expiration
    IAM MFA (USA made it mandatory)
        MFA = password + security token
        Even password is stolen, MFA is still secure
        Virtual MFA device
            Google Authenticator (phone app)
            Authy (phone app)
        Universal 2nd factor (U2F) Security key
            Physical device example YubiKey
        Hardware key fob MFA device
            Provided by gemalto(3rd party)
            AWS GovCloud - Provided by SurePassID

IAM Roles for services
    Some AWS service will need to perform actions on your behalf.
    To do so, we will assign permissions to AWS servies with IAM roles.
    Common roles: EC2 role, Lambda role, Roles for cloud formation, etc.
    Example: EC2 instance want's to access the AWS service, then EC2 instance need to has some role to get the access.

IAM Security Tools
    IAM credential report (Account level)
        a report that list all your account's users and status of their various credentials
    IAM Access Advisor (user level)
        Access Advisor show ths service permissions granted to the user and when those services were last accessed.
    
IAM best practices
    Don't use root account except for AWS account setup
    One physical user = one AWS user (Don't provide your credentials)
    Assign users to groups and permissions to groups
    Create strong password policies
    Use and enfore the use of MFA
    Create and use Roles for giving permissions to AWS services.
    Use Access key for Programatic access
    Audit permissions on your account using IAM credentials Report and IAM access Advisor.
    Never share IAM users and access keys

Share Responsibility Model for IAM
    You - Users, groups, roles, policies, management and monitoring
        Enable MFA 
        Rotate keys
        Use IAM tools to apply appropriate permissions
        Review permissions
    AWS - infrastructure, configuration and vulnerability anaylsis, Compliance validation.

